Okay.
So in the previous part, we have covered everything about this shape class and what this class is containing.
So initially we were creating this circle and the rectangle class and of course the line class.
So there was a red underline inside this x, y and everything.
But when we like declared everything inside the shape class, then this is gone and now everything is
an entry.
We can say that and this x, y, w edge for the circle, the rectangle and the line are properly defined
now.
So now we are done with everything.
This panel, this top panel, the working of these buttons, we have added action business inside the
main class.
Now, the only thing which is left is this white space.
How this white space is going to work.
Like we are working on this white space with the help of motion of the mouse, we are moving our mouse
like dragging it from here.
And then in order to draw a line or to move a shape from one place to another, we are using our mouse
only.
So let us first create the drawing area Java class and then inside this the main focus which is going
to be like a mouse, motionless mouse.
So that class is going to listen to the movement of our mouse that where we want to locate the shape
inside the canvas.
Or we can say that the drawing area.
So let us first create the drawing area, not Java class.
So this is the name of the file drawing Java and on hitting enter we will end up inside this file.
A public class drawing area is already created, so this is going to be a panel.
So we are going to extend it as G panel.
And yes, so already the import is made.
We do not have to import it on like manually just by hitting this panel, this import is made automatically
now what this panel is going to implement.
So this is going to implement the mouse motion listener.
And.
Mouse motion.
Listener and the mouse listener.
Two things.
So we will separate it with a comma.
And this is how it is going to work.
So, yes, we have implemented two functions inside this class drawing area.
Now we will be declaring some objects inside this class.
First one will be a ArrayList.
So this ArrayList is going to contain the shape.
Now, I will explain this in a moment that what is the role of ArrayList inside the drawing area?
Class So yes, this is going to be a shape and the name of this ArrayList is going to be shapes.
Okay.
So after this.
A few more things which are like needed to be initialized.
Here is static int press x.
That's why.
SEC x.
And sick boy.
So this is how it is done.
Now, you may be wondering that what is the role of analysts like we have used this to earlier in our
other projects also.
But what is the role of analyst in this growing area?
So we are adding shapes inside this drawing area and this addition is made one by one.
So we do not know in the beginning that how many shapes the user will like create inside this drawing
area.
So the ArrayList will basically contain all the shapes which are being inputted with the help of these
buttons.
So the ArrayList is only going to contain the shapes, and of course that list is resizable.
So in the beginning we do not know that how many shapes the user is going to like input inside the drawing
area.
So with the help of the list, we will be able to contain all the shapes without any exceptions.
I suppose if we use any array or list then we have to fix that size in the beginning.
But we do not know that how many shapes we are going to enter inside the drawing area.
So yes, the list is the perfect option for storing the shapes inside the drawing area.
And what is this?
Press X, Y and sec, x and set y is so like in order to draw any shape inside the drawing area, we
are pressing our mouse and then like suppose we are drawing a line, so we are pressing our mouse and
then like keeping dragging it to a position when we want to like keep the line long.
So that is a pressing point for the mouse and there is a releasing point for the mouse.
So if we are drawing a circle or a rectangle, then only we just have to press the mouse and then the
circle will be drawn.
But this is not the end point we have to share, like the circle in the correct place.
So in order to do so, we have to press a mouse.
Then we have to drag that circle and release the mouse at the position where we want to finally place
the circle.
So suppose initially the oval was drawn here.
We have to like drag this over to this place and then release our mouse.
So this is how this press and set is going to work.
The initial point of the image is going to be this x and where the mouse is being released, then this
is going to be the sex part now.
Okay, so the next part, we are going to create our drawing area constructor, of course.
So public drawing area.
And inside it, we are going to.
Yes.
Add mouse listeners.
So add a mouse listener.
Okay.
So this is the mouse listener and this is mouse motion listening.
We have implemented both of the methods inside this drawing area constructed and the shapes which are
going to contain the shape inside this like whitespace.
So Mouse is going to listen that where you want to draw the shape and the shape will be then stored
inside the ArrayList, which is going to be like stored simply inside the white space.
Now, this drawing function is calling this a repaint method.
So this is simply doing the erase and redraw of any component.
After a small delay in time.
So basically this repaint is an asynchronous method in Java which we used to like request to the application
that we want to solve, like it is an image and then redraw something inside this white area, of course.
So yes, this is what this repaint function is doing.
Now we were discussing about graphics and like the import.
So you can see the graphics and the basic strokes inside our introduction point that this application
is going to use graphics in extensive manner.
So what actually these graphics are doing.
So we have to first import this graphics from the JWT library and graphics 2D as we are going to draw
to the images inside this canvas.
So this application is providing a wide space canvas basically, and they are with the help of these
components of this library, we are going to decide that what kind of graphics we are going to draw.
So we are like declaring them a rectangle, a circle and a line or naming it as DMP one MP 20 MP three
So whenever we want to draw that specific shape, we will be using these names to access these shapes.
So how this graphics things is working.
So suppose we are using a for low.
We are starting this for loop from zero to the size of the shape and it is going to be incremented one
by one.
So how this final statement is working.
So suppose we want to draw a rectangle and set a colour for that rectangle.
So firstly, this is going to access that rectangle from this that yes, we want to draw a rectangle
here.
The button will show draw a rectangle.
Once we hit on this button, then this will call the image we have imported the image of the rectangle,
of course.
So how the rectangle should look, which will decide.
So this class will decide that we want a graphic of a rectangle, and we have already an image for that
rectangle.
You simply call that image inside our white space, inside our canvas, and set the size accordingly
for that rectangle and of course the colour.
So this is how things are going to be put together.
We are creating a rectangle.
Similarly, if we are choosing a circle, then check the colour for like what do you want the colour
of the oval to be?
And yes, its distance from the x axis.
Y axis is its width and height of course.
So this is how this graphic thing is working.
This is going to get that specific shape from this image class and then put it inside the canvas.
Okay.
So this was all about the graphics theory inside this paint canvas tool interface application.
We are simply putting up the graphics of the rectangle, the circle and the line, and feeling colors
to it, setting the size to it.
Now we were discussing about the motion of the mouse, so how this mouse motion listener thing works
actually.
So we have imported the mouse motion is not from the event library.
So this is going to listen to the event which our mouse is going to like perform.
So on a mouse click, a specific thing is going to be performed.
So suppose we click a mouse so that a shape should be drawn to the screen.
And yes, this repaint to what we have already discussed that this repaint will help us to erase and
redraw.
That means in a minimum interval of time.
So once we click the mouse, then that image will be drawn to our canvas.
Now suppose we pressed mouse, so we want to drag something to a specific position.
If it is a line, then the line will be drawn from a starting point to the ending point.
And if we want to like press on a rectangle and drag it to any other position, then it is going to
change its coordinates accordingly on the x axis and devices.
So this press is going to set the position from the x axis and y axis respectively.
Now, when once the mouse is released, then the updated updated position is the six x and set y is
going to be the updated coordinates of that specific shape which is being drawn.
And yes, we have created a function for mouse.
Enter mouse.
Currently we are not using it, but in future if we want to implement something features for mouse,
center and mouse, then we can add it.
Now how this removal function is working.
So this remove all function is going to simply clear all like clear everything on the canvas.
This button is also playing an important role inside this canvas as it is going to erase everything
which is being drawn on this and what this is doing.
So this is going to remove shapes one by one.
Okay.
And how much are is working.
So we are dragging our mouse.
Yes, we are pressing it to a position and is the final position where it is being released.
But in between there is a process of dragging the mouse.
So when we are dragging the mouse, the coordinates are being updated continuously and when it is released,
then that coordinate will be like captured and fixed as the current coordinate for that specific issue.
So this is how this drawing area function was working, like how inside this drawing area class we were
putting shapes or adding functionalities to the mouse that how the mouse is going to work inside this
application.
Now let us try to run this application and check the functionalities that whether we have put things
correctly inside the programming section and whether they are working like correctly or not.
So let us check it by running the application.
Okay.
So coming to the main class drawing editor Java and try to run java, let's see that the application
is open.
Okay.
So perfect it is open.
The resize button is working perfectly fine.
Or there is a title panel.
There are two panels, the top panel and the sidebar.
And let us try to draw something.
So suppose we are setting 150 and 200 at the height and the word and suppose a color.
We want to choose yellow and a full rectangle.
We want to draw so perfect the rectangle is drawn.
Now check it for the oval.
So again, setting 150 and 200 and a color to the oval.
Okay.
Suppose it is this time red color and a full oval.
So on hitting it, we have successfully drawn oval.
We can like use the mouse motionless, nothing correctly.
We can change the position of the shape.
Now let us check the line thing so you can see the top bar is different.
In the case of nine, we we have been discussing about that so long.
So suppose 90 and a color blue.
So we have to draw a drag the mouse.
So suppose you have dragged it this.
So we will.
Yes.
The line is moving, of course.
A new line.
And again.
Annoyingly.
So the lion part is also working perfectly fine.
Now let's try to remove this line one by one.
Okay.
So this is done.
Now let us set this trash button is working correctly or not.
So anything it everything is cleared from the frame.
So, yes, we have completed the programming execution of this application.
Everything is working perfectly fine.
Only one thing which is remain left to check.
Let us try to save this image.
So on hitting the save button, the file chooser opens up.
Now let's try to save this image inside our local disk d call it test and hit don't save.
So the image has been saved successfully.
Method is being shown up.
Now let us check that whether it is being saved or not.
Okay, so we have saved our test the jpg inside our system.
So overall this application, we have checked everything.
The application is working perfectly fine.
The coding part is completely functional in all the manners.
And yes, I would encourage you all to try this at your own, make this application, try applying the
concepts of Java that how this print application is going to work.
And I want to thank you all for attending this session, this project.
Thank you.